Enable and disable a module using Kyma CLI and Busola (#17579)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/enable_disable_module.md

---
title: Enable and disable a Kyma module
---

## Overview

> Your cluster comes with the Kyma custom resource (CR) already installed. It collects all metadata about the cluster, such as enabled modules, their statuses, or synchronization, using Lifecycle Manager. Lifecycle Manager uses `moduletemplate.yaml` to enable or disable modules on your cluster. 

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention Lifecycle Manager, @janmedrek would you agree?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your cluster comes with the Kyma custom resource (CR) already installed. It collects all metadata about the cluster, such as enabled modules, their statuses, or synchronization. The `moduletemplate.yaml` contains ModuleTemplate custom resource that is used to enable or disable modules on your cluster. 
```

I would go with something like this. 🙂

## Enable a module

> > **NOTE:** To quickly enable a module, go to your **Cluster Details** view and select **Add Module**. Then, choose the channel of your choice and click **Add** to choose and upload your module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **TIP:** To quickly enable a module using Kyma Dashboard, go to your **Cluster Details** view and select **Add Module**. Then, select the channel of your choice and click **Add** to upload your module.
```
Maybe we should place the tip in the Kyma Dashboard tab?

> > **TIP:** You can also configure your Kyma CR to enable a module manually. For more details, see [Kyma CR](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/technical-reference/api/kyma-cr.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **TIP:** You can also configure the Kyma CR to enable a module manually. For more details, see [Kyma CR](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/technical-reference/api/kyma-cr.md).
```
I would add the TIP at the end of the ## Enable a module section. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: I second that, especially because it's ugly that we have two note/tip boxes right next to each other

<div tabs name="Enable a module" group="enable-disable-module">
  <details>
  <summary label="cli">
  Kyma CLI
  </summary>

> Check which modules are available on your cluster. Run: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check which modules are available on your cluster. Run: 
```

   ```bash
   kyma alpha list module
   ```

> You should get a result similar to this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You should get a result similar to this example:
```

   ```bash
   operator.kyma-project.io/module-name    Domain Name (FQDN)         Channel     Version                      Template                     State
        cluster-ip                   kyma-project.io/cluster-ip        fast       v0.0.24    kyma-system/moduletemplate-cluster-ip-fast   <no value>
   ```

> Enable a module on your cluster in the release channel of your choice. Run: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enable a module on your cluster in the release channel of your choice. Run: 
```

   ```bash
   kyma alpha enable module {MODULE_NAME} --channel {CHANNEL_NAME} --wait
   ```

> You should see the following message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You should see the following message:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```bash
```

4. In the **Modules** section, click **Add**.
5. Choose the name of your desired module.
6. _Optionally_, choose the available channel.
7. Select **Update**.

This process may take a while, depending on the number of modules. The operation was successful if the module Status changed to `READY`.
</details>
</div>

> **TIP:** You can also configure the Kyma CR to enable a module manually. For more details, see [Kyma CR](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/technical-reference/api/kyma-cr.md).

## Disable a module

<div tabs name="Disable a module" group="enable-disable-module">
  <details>
  <summary label="cli">
  Kyma CLI
  </summary>

To disable a module, run: 

   ```bash
   kyma alpha disable module {MODULE_NAME}
   ``` 
You should see the following message:

```bash
   - Successfully connected to cluster
   - Modules patched!
   ```

</details>
<details>
<summary label= Kyma Dashboard>
Kyma Dashboard
</summary>

Follow these steps to disable a Kyma module in Kyma Dashboard:
1. Go to the `kyma-system` Namespace.
2. In the **Kyma** section, Choose the **Kyma** resource.
3. Select your Kyma instance (`default-kyma`) and click **Edit**.

> 4. Click on the thrash icon next to your module and update the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click on the trash icon next to your module and update the changes.
```

---
title: Enable and disable a Kyma module
---

## Overview

Your cluster comes with the Kyma custom resource (CR) already installed. It collects all metadata about the cluster, such as enabled modules, their statuses, or synchronization, using Lifecycle Manager. Lifecycle Manager uses `moduletemplate.yaml` to enable or disable modules on your cluster. 

## Procedure

> **NOTE:** To quickly enable a module, go to your **Cluster Details** view and select **Add Module**. Then, choose the channel of your choice and click **Add** to choose and upload your module.

> **TIP:** You can also configure your Kyma CR to enable a module manually. For more details, see [Kyma CR](https://github.com/kyma-project/lifecycle-manager/blob/main/docs/technical-reference/api/kyma-cr.md).

> <div tabs name="steps" group="enable-module">

Reviewer 3: if this is called "enable module", why does it also contain instructions to disable it? Will readers find it? Why not two procedures (each with tabs for CLI and GUI). The "disable" procedure will be very short, but still it fulfils a separate user goal.

Author: Sure, good idea. I'll change that.
